Welcome back to the advanced course on
Tableau. In the previous tutorial, we
created this beautiful-looking
visualization which now shows us the
idle capacity in tons and today we will
learn a new skill. We'll learn how to save
our Tableau calculations. So let's start
with the first, next step that we need to
perform and that is to change this idle
capacity from tons to
percentages and that is very easy to do.
All we have to do is click the
drop-down and we clear.. change the table
calculation to from a change from
difference to percent difference and
that this Tableau calculation is being
conducted across so what we need to do
once again is we need to say compute
using Tableau down so it's called
conducted down, downwards using those
hidden rows for the nominal capacities.
Now what this calculation is showing us
is exactly what it what we want it is
taking the noiminal capacity so which is
hidden we can't see it right now so
between these two there's a nominal
capacity for RL2. It is taking the
nominal cap.. it is taking actual
capacity for RL2 minus the nominal
capacity for RL2  and it is
dividing by the nominal capacity for RL2
and therefore this is the idle capacity
in percentage that we're looking for.
Now what we can see here is that the
idle capacity is represented by
percentage but this percentage is
negative.
Now it does make sense because idle
capacity is a metric which is showing us
how poorly a machine was performing any
given hour, so for instance this machine
RL2 at signal during the hour of six
o'clock in the evening afternoon on
September the six. It was a processed 24
percentage or 24 points only eight
percentage of call less than its nominal
capacity. So it is a metric that is
talking about how it's like a negative
metric it's impacting the business
negatively it's impacting revenue and
everything negative so does make sense
that it is negative. However, best
practices of visualization
tell us that it is easier for humans to
interpret data when it is not upside
down. So this chart right now, it's upside
down and it'll be harder for people to
understand this chart in this way. It'll
be easier if we turn it into a correct
chart where it is above zero and let me
show you an example to explain a bit
better what I mean.
So I'm going to add a reference line to
this chart. I'm going to right click,
click add reference line and I
want to add a constant reference line
that is the 10-percent line so that is
that cut-off point that will be using in
our analysis going forward in this
section of the course. So how do I add a
10-percent reference line? In order to
add a constant reference line you have
to click this drop-down here and this is
where a lot of people get confused the
first time because they start looking
for the constant here or the here but in
reality the constant should be selected
here. So you select the constant here and
then you type in the value so minus ten
percent. Now how would you go about
analyze, analyzing this chart or more
importantly, how would the user of your
dashboard go about analyzing this chart?
Let's say they're looking for machines
that are exceeding the ten percent mark,
right. So machines that are
underperforming they'll be looking for
spikes that are exceeding this ten
percent more and notice that I'm using
the word exceeding here and that's
exactly what your engines will be saying.
They'll be saying, did this machine
exceed the ten percent threshold? Or did it not
exceed the ten percent threshold in that
hour? Well exceed in in normal language
assumes and something is above something.
Here exceed for to find things that are
exceeding you have to look at the spikes
that are below the ten percent line and
that is counter-intuitive. It is not hard
to understand it for the user
they can quickly take a grasp it but
still every single time in their head
they're going to be doing the inverse to
what their nature is telling them to do.
They are looking for something that is
exceeding but visually they're going to
be comparing whether this spike is below the
ten percent line, and that is not good.
That
means that you're forcing this
visualization is forcing your user your
end user to conduct an additional step
in their brain to gain the insights that
utilization is telling them and we want
to take care of our user remember that
everything we're doing is to take care
of the end user and make our dashboards
as intuitive as possible, as user-
friendly as possible and the best way to
resolve this situation here is to flip
the chart and to flip the chart what we
can do is we can click edit axis and
click reverse over here, click apply
that will flip the chart but what that
will do the same time is everything will
still stay negative and that can also be
a confusing because how can nev..
negative values be above zero and how
they can be growing that way. That will
require the user also to think a little
bit.
We don't want that, we want to flip it
but make everything positive so let's
undo the reversed click apply, click OK
and in order to achieve a flip and
making everything that we see here
positive making access positive what we
would do is we would multiply the value
that visualizing by minus one, correct
right? So once we multiply by minus one,
everything will automatically flip access
the values everything but the challenge
here is that we don't have this value in
our measures or dimensions we don't have
this values of field and that is
completely normal that is because what
we're visualizing here is a table
calculation and it's signified here by
this triangle and as we discussed table
calculations are not sent back to the
data storage facility to calculate. They
are conducted, they are calculated by
Tableau within your visual. So they're
calculated in fact they are calculated at the
level of granularity of your visual and
that's why Tableau has to do them within
itself and that is why it is completely
normal for the table calculation to only
exists in your columns and rows or
basically in any of your panes, in your
visualization but not exist in your
measures of dimensions. So how can we
actually get this table calculation to
become a calculated field in our
measures so that we can work
with it further down the track. Well
that's pretty easy all you have to do is
take your table calculation and drag it
into measures.
This creates a new calculated field
which you can give a name, so we'll call
it idle capacity percent and we'll click
ok. So there's our idle capacity percent, as you
can see it has updated here and also it
is still a table calculation, so that
triangle is still telling us that this
is a table calculation but now we can
work with it as a calculated field. So
we'll right click, click create calculated
field and this one we'll call idle
capacity percent and also pause for
positive and here we'll say minus one multiplied by
idle capacity and click OK. That gives us
a new calculated field and if we drag it
in to replace idle capacity percent,
you'll see that the charts flip and also
you'll see that the triangle is still
there meaning that this new field idle
capacity percent pause is also a table
calculation which makes total sense. Now
the last thing we have to do is change
this ten percent line. So let's click
here, right click edit reference line and
change it from minus ten percent to ten
percent. Now there we go, we flipped on
visual and everything is positive now.
All we have to do is format the axis or even
this format, this value and change it to
a percent so it's ten percent and same
thing for the axis percent, ten percent, so it
doesn't have any decimals. So that's
that's great now, it's much easier if
you're looking for a machine that
exceeded the 10-percent line you just
look at the spikes and you see that
they're above this ten percent line and
that is perfect that means that you can
very easily and quickly find what you're
looking for.
So there you go, that is how you save
your table calculations in Tableau and
this brings us to the end of this
tutorial. I look forward to seeing you next time and
until then, Happy Analyzing!
I